Computer Science 25
February 04 2022
Mr. Manning
CSE 1210: Client-Side Scripting 1
1) 1.1) The internet consists of thousands of servers and clients transferring data to and from each other. They send packets between each other, and can operate in different layers (e.g. layer 2 (switches): MAC address, layer 3(routers): IP address) and the amount of packets/data at once scales higher and higher the higher you go up the hierarchy. The TCP/IP model has 4 stages that do various things. There’s the network access layer (DLL and physical layer), the internet layer (defines protocols for data transmission), host to host layer (end to end communication + preventing errors), application layer (node to node communication with specific protocols (e.g. http, https,telnet…)). When a user makes a request, (after the client/server handshake) the server finds the product id, gets the file from the database and builds the web page based on the data it gets. Three services that require a client/server relationship would be Youtube, Netflix and pretty much every other online streaming service.

1.2) The hypertext is a coding language from the internet that can be understood by web browsers, and turned into web pages., and consists of very blocky code sections. The difference between the web and the internet, is that the internet is a collection of servers/computers, whereas the web is the visible stuff you see on web pages and search results. The web can be seen as a network of linked documents, because thats mostly what it does, and everything you see is hypertext. HTTP protects data in transit, by encrypting it, making it impossible to read. When someone makes a request, it send the command/information to the server, and in response the server sends back the html, css and javascript needed to run the specific page. The web 1.0 ad few content creators with a majority of users, with mainly only personal web pages run on ISP servers. Web 2.0 was where it became more social, and was mostly just updating the way the pages were designed and used. Web 3.0 moved the web onto a database, and  upgraded the backend of the web. 

2) 2.1) The role that markup languages have in the web, is that they build the websites that people see, and the general GUI. There are many different types of markup languages, including KML, XML, and SGML, but the most commonly used is HTML. There are also a lot of different scripting languages, but the most commonly used for web pages is javascript. Markup languages are coding languages that are more unique due to the fact that they use tags, for example <html> and </html>. All the listed languages are subsets of SGML (XML, HTML…) but XHTML and DHTML extend and are a subset of HTML. HTML is an internet markup language that uses tags to build webpages (for example <p>Hello</p> would display the words “Hello” on a webpage). Another markup language is XML which is similar in the fact that it also uses tags, but it’s more class oriented (for example <parent><child><title>link</title></child></parent>).

3) Everything needed here will be in the “index” folder

4) Don’t really know what to do for this part, so I will assure you that I can be responsible and work with others.

5) I’m not too interested in web development, but I still think it would be beneficial for me to make at least 1 website (that I’m not planning on publishing) that I can be proud of. I learnt html and css from codecademy originally, but then forgot it and used a phone app to relearn the html and css, and fully learn the javascript.
